README.md, before:

# Streaming Platform Analytics

Analyze movie availability and ratings across Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, and Disney+ with a normalized relational schema, reproducible SQL, and demo analytics. Includes ready-to-publish Tableau dashboards.

## Highlights
- Clean, normalized schema for titles, platforms, availability, genres, and ratings.
- Idempotent ETL from a staging table into the relational model.
- Demo analytics: platform coverage, overlaps, top titles per platform/year, rating distributions.
- Tableau dashboards for quick storytelling and portfolio-ready visuals.

## Repository layout
```
streaming-platform-analytics/
│
├── data/ # CSVs that back the Tableau dashboards and example SQL
│ ├── avg_rt_by_platform.csv # Avg Rotten Tomatoes (or RT-like) score per platform
│ ├── highest_rated_per_year_platform.csv # Highest-rated title per year per platform (base)
│ ├── highest_rated_per_year_platform_dashboard2.csv # Same as above, tailored for dashboard 2
│ ├── rating_distribution_bins.csv # Binned ratings for histograms/distributions (base)
│ ├── rating_distribution_bins_dashboard2.csv # Dashboard-specific bins/version for viz 2
│ ├── titles_per_platform.csv # Title counts by platform (used in overview visuals)
│ └── top10_by_platform.csv # Top 10 titles per platform by rating/score
│
├── docs/ # Design + documentation
│ ├── DATA_DICTIONARY.md # Field-by-field definitions used across CSV/SQL/Tableau
│ ├── ERD and Relational Schema.docx # ERD + schema narrative (source doc)
│ ├── REPORT_Short.md # Executive summary of approach/findings
│ └── SQL_Documentation.md # SQL objects, constraints, and notes
│
├── images/ # Rendered, README-friendly images
│ ├── Streaming_Platform_ERD.png # ERD (PNG for GitHub preview)
│ └── Streaming_Platform_RelationalSchema.png # Relational schema (PNG for GitHub preview)
│
├── sql/ # SQL pipeline from schema → seed → load → transform → demos
│ ├── 01_schema.sql # DDL: create tables, PK/FK constraints, checks
│ ├── 02_seed.sql # Minimal seed/reference data (platforms, sources, etc.)
│ ├── 03_full_load_from_values.sql # Example full load using VALUES (demo-friendly)
│ ├── 04_transform_from_stage.sql # Example transforms if loading via a staging layer
│ └── 05_demo_queries.sql # Handy queries to validate model and power quick analysis
│
├── tableau/
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.twbx # Packaged workbook referencing files in /data
│ └── images/ # Exported visuals for README/portfolio
│ ├── dashboard1.png
│ ├── dashboard2.png
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.pdf # Slide-ready export (optional to keep here)
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.pptx
│ └── Thumbs.db # OS-generated; safe to delete/ignore
│
├── .gitattributes # Text/binary normalization settings for the repo
├── LICENSE # MIT license
└── README.md # Project overview, setup, and quickstart
```

## Oracle SQL Developer - Quickstart
1) Run the DDL to create tables:
```sql
@sql/01_schema.sql
```
2) Seed lookups:
```sql
@sql/02_seed.sql
```
3) Load staging and/or run the staged ETL:
- Option A (prototype demo): `@sql/03_full_load_from_values.sql`  
- Option B (recommended): Create and populate STAGE_MOVIES, then:
```sql
@sql/04_transform_from_stage.sql
```
4) Validate with demo queries (add your own as desired):
```sql
@sql/05_demo_queries.sql
```

Note: Scripts were authored for Oracle. For Postgres/SQLite, replace identity/merge syntax and LISTAGG equivalents.

### Database Design

The entity–relationship diagram (ERD) and relational schema define the core data model for the Streaming Platform Analytics project.  
These documents describe the relationships among `TITLE`, `GENRE`, `PLATFORM`, and associated bridge tables.

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/Streaming_Platform_ERD.png" alt="ER Diagram" width="720">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="images/Streaming_Platform_RelationalSchema.png" alt="Relational Schema" width="720">
</p>

## Tableau

#### Packaged workbook
The packaged Tableau workbook is included at:
- `tableau/Streaming Platform Analytics.twbx`

You can open this directly in Tableau Desktop or publish to Tableau Public.

### Data files (for Dashboard 2)
Additional CSVs for the Ratings & Trends dashboard are included in `/data`:

- `highest_rated_per_year_platform_dashboard2.csv`
- `rating_distribution_bins_dashboard2.csv`

These support the line charts and distribution visuals in Dashboard 2.

### Data files (for Dashboard 1)
CSVs used for the Platform Overview dashboard are included in `/data`:

- `avg_rt_by_platform.csv`
- `highest_rated_per_year_platform.csv`
- `rating_distribution_bins.csv`
- `titles_per_platform.csv`
- `top10_by_platform.csv`


### Screenshots
<p align="center">
  <img src="tableau/images/dashboard1.png" alt="Platform Overview" width="720">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="tableau/images/dashboard2.png" alt="Ratings and Trends" width="720">
</p>


## Dataset credit
Kaggle: Movies on Netflix, Prime Video, Hulu, and Disney+ by Ruchi Bhatia. Check license before redistribution.

## License
MIT — see LICENSE.

## Author
Alex McAnnally

Commit message:

Include full MIT License in README
Added detailed MIT License information to the README.

README.md, after:

# Streaming Platform Analytics

Analyze movie availability and ratings across Netflix, Hulu, Prime Video, and Disney+ with a normalized relational schema, reproducible SQL, and demo analytics. Includes ready-to-publish Tableau dashboards.

## Highlights
- Clean, normalized schema for titles, platforms, availability, genres, and ratings.
- Idempotent ETL from a staging table into the relational model.
- Demo analytics: platform coverage, overlaps, top titles per platform/year, rating distributions.
- Tableau dashboards for quick storytelling and portfolio-ready visuals.

## Repository layout
```
streaming-platform-analytics/
│
├── data/ # CSVs that back the Tableau dashboards and example SQL
│ ├── avg_rt_by_platform.csv # Avg Rotten Tomatoes (or RT-like) score per platform
│ ├── highest_rated_per_year_platform.csv # Highest-rated title per year per platform (base)
│ ├── highest_rated_per_year_platform_dashboard2.csv # Same as above, tailored for dashboard 2
│ ├── rating_distribution_bins.csv # Binned ratings for histograms/distributions (base)
│ ├── rating_distribution_bins_dashboard2.csv # Dashboard-specific bins/version for viz 2
│ ├── titles_per_platform.csv # Title counts by platform (used in overview visuals)
│ └── top10_by_platform.csv # Top 10 titles per platform by rating/score
│
├── docs/ # Design + documentation
│ ├── DATA_DICTIONARY.md # Field-by-field definitions used across CSV/SQL/Tableau
│ ├── ERD and Relational Schema.docx # ERD + schema narrative (source doc)
│ ├── REPORT_Short.md # Executive summary of approach/findings
│ └── SQL_Documentation.md # SQL objects, constraints, and notes
│
├── images/ # Rendered, README-friendly images
│ ├── Streaming_Platform_ERD.png # ERD (PNG for GitHub preview)
│ └── Streaming_Platform_RelationalSchema.png # Relational schema (PNG for GitHub preview)
│
├── sql/ # SQL pipeline from schema → seed → load → transform → demos
│ ├── 01_schema.sql # DDL: create tables, PK/FK constraints, checks
│ ├── 02_seed.sql # Minimal seed/reference data (platforms, sources, etc.)
│ ├── 03_full_load_from_values.sql # Example full load using VALUES (demo-friendly)
│ ├── 04_transform_from_stage.sql # Example transforms if loading via a staging layer
│ └── 05_demo_queries.sql # Handy queries to validate model and power quick analysis
│
├── tableau/
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.twbx # Packaged workbook referencing files in /data
│ └── images/ # Exported visuals for README/portfolio
│ ├── dashboard1.png
│ ├── dashboard2.png
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.pdf # Slide-ready export (optional to keep here)
│ ├── Streaming Platform Analytics.pptx
│ └── Thumbs.db # OS-generated; safe to delete/ignore
│
├── .gitattributes # Text/binary normalization settings for the repo
├── LICENSE # MIT license
└── README.md # Project overview, setup, and quickstart
```

## Oracle SQL Developer - Quickstart
1) Run the DDL to create tables:
```sql
@sql/01_schema.sql
```
2) Seed lookups:
```sql
@sql/02_seed.sql
```
3) Load staging and/or run the staged ETL:
- Option A (prototype demo): `@sql/03_full_load_from_values.sql`  
- Option B (recommended): Create and populate STAGE_MOVIES, then:
```sql
@sql/04_transform_from_stage.sql
```
4) Validate with demo queries (add your own as desired):
```sql
@sql/05_demo_queries.sql
```

Note: Scripts were authored for Oracle. For Postgres/SQLite, replace identity/merge syntax and LISTAGG equivalents.

### Database Design

The entity–relationship diagram (ERD) and relational schema define the core data model for the Streaming Platform Analytics project.  
These documents describe the relationships among `TITLE`, `GENRE`, `PLATFORM`, and associated bridge tables.

<p align="center">
  <img src="images/Streaming_Platform_ERD.png" alt="ER Diagram" width="720">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="images/Streaming_Platform_RelationalSchema.png" alt="Relational Schema" width="720">
</p>

## Tableau

#### Packaged workbook
The packaged Tableau workbook is included at:
- `tableau/Streaming Platform Analytics.twbx`

You can open this directly in Tableau Desktop or publish to Tableau Public.

### Data files (for Dashboard 2)
Additional CSVs for the Ratings & Trends dashboard are included in `/data`:

- `highest_rated_per_year_platform_dashboard2.csv`
- `rating_distribution_bins_dashboard2.csv`

These support the line charts and distribution visuals in Dashboard 2.

### Data files (for Dashboard 1)
CSVs used for the Platform Overview dashboard are included in `/data`:

- `avg_rt_by_platform.csv`
- `highest_rated_per_year_platform.csv`
- `rating_distribution_bins.csv`
- `titles_per_platform.csv`
- `top10_by_platform.csv`


### Screenshots
<p align="center">
  <img src="tableau/images/dashboard1.png" alt="Platform Overview" width="720">
</p>
<p align="center">
  <img src="tableau/images/dashboard2.png" alt="Ratings and Trends" width="720">
</p>


## Dataset credit
Kaggle: Movies on Netflix, Prime Video, Hulu, and Disney+ by Ruchi Bhatia. Check license before redistribution.

## License
   MIT License
   
   Copyright (c) 2025 Alex McAnnally
   
   Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
   of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
   in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
   to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
   copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
   furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
   
   The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
   copies or substantial portions of the Software.
   
   THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
   IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
   AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
   LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
   OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
   SOFTWARE.

## Author
Alex McAnnally
